README.md, before:

# Stocks-101

Stocks 101 is a web-based financial education tool designed to help beginners understand the stock market without risking real money. The application features a real-time (simulated) stock ticker, interactive price history graphs, and a "Practice" mode where users can calculate compound interest and potential returns on investments. It also includes a personalized "Watchlist" feature, allowing users to save and track specific stocks they are interested in using a persistent database. This application is designed as a Responsive Web Application for desktop users.


# Developer Manual

**Audience**
This document is intended for future developers who will maintain or expand the Stocks 101 platform. It assumes knowledge of JavaScript, Node.js, and basic REST API principles.

**Installation & Dependencies**
To set up the application locally, follow these steps:

1) Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/your-username/stocks-101.git
cd stocks-101

In our case the "your-username" is javante but you should replace it with the github username the code is in.

2) Install Node.js Dependencies: This project uses npm for package management. Run the following command in the root directory:
npm install

3) Database Configuration
Go to Supabase.com and create a project. Afterwards, create a table using the SQL editor. In this project, we are creating a watchlist for our stocks by running the code below

create table watchlist (
  id bigint generated by default as identity primary key,
  symbol text not null,
  price numeric,
  created_at timestamp with time zone default timezone('utc'::text, now()) not null
);

Afterwards, get your API key and project URL

4) Go to Finnhub where you will create a free account and an API key. This is where we will get real time stock price information

5) Create a .env file in your project and paste all three things (Suapbase API, URL, Finnhub API)

6) Running the Application

You can run locally with "npm start" and open http://localhost:3000 in your browser.

Alternatively, you can use Vercel where you create an account, add a new project, and import the github repository

Ensure that you have added your Finnhub API, Supabase URL, and API Key into the environmental variables in Vercel.

Click Deploy and Vercel will host the app.


**API Endpoints**

GET	    /api/get-watchlist	         Fetches all saved stocks from Supabase.
POST	/api/add-watchlist	         Adds a stock to the DB. Body: { "symbol": "AAPL" }
DELETE	/api/delete-watchlist/:id	 Deletes a stock by its ID. Example: /api/delete-watchlist/5
GET	    /api/get-stock-data	         Returns stock price data (Mock data or real-time).


**Known Bugs**

Since we are using free tier accounts for Finnhub which equates to a rate limit of approximately 60 calls every minute, you may see empty graphs or an API error alert when clicking too fast


**Future Development****
1) Implement User Authentication so users can login with their own account and have access to their own stocks
2) News feed section that reports the latest stock related news

Commit message:

chore: edit readme and about page

README.md, after:

# Stocks-101

Stocks 101 is a web-based financial education tool designed to help beginners understand the stock market without risking real money. The application features a real-time (simulated) stock ticker, interactive price history graphs, and a "Practice" mode where users can calculate compound interest and potential returns on investments. It also includes a personalized "Watchlist" feature, allowing users to save and track specific stocks they are interested in using a persistent database. This application is designed as a Responsive Web Application for desktop users.


# Developer Manual

**Audience**
This document is intended for future developers who will maintain or expand the Stocks 101 platform. It assumes knowledge of JavaScript, Node.js, and basic REST API principles.

**Installation & Dependencies**
To set up the application locally, follow these steps:

1) Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/your-username/stocks-101.git
cd stocks-101

In our case the "your-username" is javante but you should replace it with the github username the code is in.

2) Install Node.js Dependencies: This project uses npm for package management. Run the following command in the root directory:
npm install

3) Database Configuration
Go to Supabase.com and create a project. Afterwards, create a table using the SQL editor. In this project, we are creating a watchlist for our stocks by running the code below

create table watchlist (
  id bigint generated by default as identity primary key,
  symbol text not null,
  price numeric,
  created_at timestamp with time zone default timezone('utc'::text, now()) not null
);

Afterwards, get your API key and project URL

4) Go to Finnhub where you will create a free account and an API key. This is where we will get real time stock price information

5) Create a .env file in your project and paste all three things (Suapbase API, URL, Finnhub API)

6) Running the Application

You can run locally with "npm start" and open http://localhost:3000 in your browser.

Alternatively, you can use Vercel where you create an account, add a new project, and import the github repository

Ensure that you have added your Finnhub API, Supabase URL, and API Key into the environmental variables in Vercel.

Click Deploy and Vercel will host the app.


**API Endpoints**

GET	    /api/get-watchlist	         Fetches all saved stocks from Supabase.
POST	/api/add-watchlist	         Adds a stock to the DB. Body: { "symbol": "AAPL" }
DELETE	/api/delete-watchlist/:id	 Deletes a stock by its ID. Example: /api/delete-watchlist/5
GET	    /api/get-stock-data	         Returns stock price data (Mock data or real-time).


**Known Bugs**

Since we are using free tier accounts for Finnhub which equates to a rate limit of approximately 60 calls every minute, you may see empty graphs or an API error alert when clicking too fast. 


**Future Development****
1) Implement User Authentication so users can login with their own account and have access to their own stocks
2) News feed section that reports the latest stock related news
3) Allow stock data to update dynamically without having the user refresh the page
